---
breaks:  false # See: https://github.com/hackmdio/codimd/issues/40#issuecomment-172927690
---
# 2020-12-09 Hypha Worker Co-op: All Hands

<sup>[from template][template] | [:notebook: Meetings][meetings] | [:date: Calendar][calendar] | [:white_check_mark: Tasks][tasks] | [:cat: Code][gh] | [:open_file_folder: Drive][drive]</sup>

Time:       5:00-6:00pm ET  
Location:   https://link.hypha.coop/calls  
Attending:  bl, yj, dc, gi, uv, el, pc  
Cultivator: bl  
Notetaker:  uv

## Agenda

| Item                                            | Time (min) |
|:------------------------------------------------|-----------:|
| [Personal Checkins](#Personal-Checkins)         |          5 |
| [Announcements](#Announcements)                 |          5 |
| [Task Board Review](#Task-Board-Review)         |         15 |
| [Working Group Updates](#Working-Group-Updates) |          5 |
| [Project Updates](#Project-Updates)             |          5 |
| [Discussions](#Discussions)                     |         20 |
| [Process Checkout](#Process-Checkout)           |          5 |

## Notes

### Personal Checkins

- one bs reason why no sound
    - pc: sound broken
    - el: no idea
    - dc: jetlag
    - yj: ded tired
    - uv: brainfog
    - bl: netflix til 5am (cable girls RECO)
        - dc: las casa de las flores RECO
    - gi: multitasking

- aside: nailed it! great watching (alysha+1)

### Announcements

- Meet.coop Xmas party Friday Dec 11 @ 11:00 ET (lots of people coming!)
- Hypha Holiday party Sunday Dec 13 @ 16:00 ET, join our discord as Hypha member >> https://discord.gg/uGU9Zaz2Nn (can invite other folks!)
    - Hypha people will have moderation priviledges and will be purple, use the right account but can claim account also after
    - Hypha people should join discord early
    - There's a front door that sets the tone
- Hypha Office is CLOSED for the holidays â„ðŸŽ€â˜ƒ   
**Sat Dec 19 - Sun Jan 10**  
We'll have an autoresponder on the `hello@` and `members@` email and VM. Please note: 
    - Benedict: will be doing email/phone monitoring Jan 4 onwards
    - You can set up an auto-response too (no presh!), see [draft to adapt on GH](https://github.com/hyphacoop/organizing/issues/381#issuecomment-741934837) 
    - **All members** ensure your: **hours are in clockify**
    - **Project leads** ensure your: **project invoicing and payroll hours are in sheet**  

### Task Board Review

- Archive DONE tasks :tada:
	- #308 finalize biz plan. cleaned up
	    - wrapped up. strat notes. finalized Y2 biz plan.
	    - we are doing the things we said we would do! 
    - #104 npo amendment. done today!
        - once paid, doesn't require feedback from hypha, will drop priority
- Review [HIGH `[priority-â˜…â˜…â˜…]`][l-pri-hi] tasks :fire: (some of these are lower priority that got mixed in!)
    - #329 ASN
        - Waiting for tomesh to respond to SoW
        - tim replied that they will get back soon
    - #313 server setup
        - yj: Where is long draft supposed to be?
        - trying to differentiate permanent vs temporary materials. latter can go into hackpads.
        - hypha ops doesn't have any opinions, but offering follow up convos if needed
        - yj: seems like we're doing this already, just need to present this in infra meeting
    - #311 anti-black racism.
        - concrete actions required. dc has tabs open!
        - might need rescoping
    - private#103 opportunity. patcon closing.
    - #307 handbook issues.
        - dc will ping pc and close out a few lingering things
    - #319 close off hopefully by tuesday
    - #318 moved to doing
    - #272 look and feel
        - dc: may need to revisit because of blog
    - private#43 build relationships with coops. need to see if we want to be coop provider. punted to bizdev
    - #372 set up telephone system: documentation required
- Triage NEW tasks :new:
	- ...
- Assign [UNASSIGNED][l-none] tasks :briefcase:
	- ...


dc: can we reorder stacks according to sequence

### Working Group Updates

- [Business Planning][biz-wg] [`wg:business-planning`][l-biz]
    - uv: co-work on blog. couple opportunities, possible projects from collaborators
    - pc: call with informal systems
        - dc: not rdy for bizdev, more governance
- [Finance][fin-wg] [`wg:finance`][l-fin]
    - bl: payroll is coming in on the 15th, haven't heard from hema about fiscal hosting, also not from rodica after mistake (from missing info)
    - better visibility around project profits and expenses.
    - as soon as expenses: client => client w/ project in quickbooks
    - there is a way to transition from "client" to "project" (projects have expenses and track in CDN dollars)
- [Governance][gov-wg] [`wg:governance`][l-gov]
    - dc: call w/ informal systems. big thing: amending articles ->> got emailed
        - some processes around norms for using chat
        - uv: #todo call with DisCo
        - yj: suggest #todo sensorica call (fr tomesh convo)
- [Infrastructure][inf-wg] [`wg:infrastructure`][l-inf]
    - el: docs for server setup. present at next infra and close out
- [Operations][ops-wg] [`wg:operations`][l-ops]
    - pc: co-work, party times. everything discussed in task review.

### Project Updates

- Aether
    - closed funding process :(
    - will now become solo/slow burn hobby project
    - timeline and approach could change significantly
    - bl will be stepping back in terms of project work
    - outstanding (15hrs x 3 months) work, but bl giving space
    - dc: value in logging/billing now
    - yj: because we use cash system (not accrual) so it doesn't matter because for tax purposes we only look at when money moves
    - bl: feeling some financial precarity (covid subsidy running out in march). looking for small contract work or hypha projects
- COMPOST
    - call for pitches closed yest. 124 pitches. REALLY good. :tada:
    - ben+benny+elon does tech stuff.
    - decide first round contribs by next week.
    - maybe not do another pitch round, and just keep using
    - call with SimplySecure for overlaps of mutual support (not right away. issue 2?)
- MJW
    - need to poke folks. no update from the other end.
    - always billing to directly with Seth
- StART
    - calls with StART. still learning new information. pushing back on some scope creep. they're happy, relationship feels good.
    - deadline is in 2021 (mid jan) for StART, when contract ends
    - our relationship with nl ends in jan 2021. lots still tbd
    - dc: do a little all hands retro for this project?
- Qm
    - last call of the year on Friday. want plan for first quarter 2021
- tomesh
    - SoW reviewd done. will have review from them in the next few days.
- **new** FL/Bentway: Digital and/as Public Space (dc)
    - FL got this project
    - Macy invited to Friday session (presentation from Bentway to FL. courtesy call.)
    - Leaving scoping to next year?
- meet.coop
    - xmas party
    - dc: supervisor offered compute resources from academics. (in-kind. cheap?) long term.
        - bl: have turned down in past. all VM so far. bad. cost of new platform = high.
        - bl: filter: free? strings? vm? dc: high prob of multiyear grants. pretty longterm.
        - yj: might be good to set up a lab

### Discussions

- Open Collective legal review
    - US lawyer. worked with "weird org structure + fiscal hosting".
    - #todo:dc+bl - reboot jan convo. raised flags. small scale minimizes risk. but which collectives work with is IMPORTANT.
        - flag: how to evolve platform as grows.
        - changes: clarify what it IS/ISN'T. reduce basis for disputes.
    - doesn't change our dates.
    - dc: in next couples months: key deliverables for ourselves. more after. proceed cautiously with diligence.
    - uv: process for new collective? submit. we "do due diligence". click accept. lots of black box tbd rn.
    - uv: thinking on FL granting + OC in med future
- Finance process (how is it working for y'all?)
    - people seem to be clear about what needs to be done
    - next step is to document workflow, bl is also dropping snapshots in the drive.
    - dc: can we add a link in the spreadsheet to filled out examples
        - can we use some conditional formatting to make it obvious that we're not double billing

### Process Checkout

- ...


### Action Items for Cultivator

- [ ] Migrate items with `#todo:person` to [task board][tasks]
- [ ] Publish meeting notes as [open access][public], or [publicly indexed][index] with [restricted access][private]
- [ ] Reset meeting pad for next meeting

<!-- Links: Important -->
[template]: https://link.hypha.coop/template
[meetings]: https://link.hypha.coop/meetings
[calendar]: https://link.hypha.coop/calendar
[tasks]:    https://link.hypha.coop/tasks
[gh]:       https://link.hypha.coop/gh
[drive]:    https://link.hypha.coop/drive

<!-- Links: Labels -->
[l-pri-hi]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:[priority-â˜…â˜…â˜…]
[l-pri-md]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:[priority-â˜…â˜…â˜†]
[l-pri-lo]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:[priority-â˜…â˜†â˜†]
[l-pri-none]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=-label:[priority-â˜…â˜†â˜†]+-label:[priority-â˜…â˜…â˜†]+-label:[priority-â˜…â˜…â˜…]
[l-biz]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:"wg:business-planning"
[l-fin]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:"wg:finance"
[l-gov]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:"wg:governance
[l-inf]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:"wg:infrastructure"
[l-ops]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=label:"wg:operations"
[l-none]: https://github.com/orgs/hyphacoop/projects/2?card_filter_query=-label:wg:operations+-label:wg:infrastructure+-label:wg:finance+-label:wg:governance+-label:wg:business-planning

<!-- Links: Working Groups -->
[biz-wg]: https://link.hypha.coop/biz-wg
[fin-wg]: https://link.hypha.coop/fin-wg
[gov-wg]: https://link.hypha.coop/gov-wg
[inf-wg]: https://link.hypha.coop/inf-wg
[ops-wg]: https://link.hypha.coop/ops-wg

<!-- Links: Archive -->
[public]:   https://github.com/hyphacoop/organizing/new/master?filename=_posts/meeting-notes/2020-MM-DD-all-hands.md
[index]:    https://github.com/hyphacoop/organizing/new/master?filename=_posts/private/meeting-notes/2020-MM-DD-all-hands.md&value=Empty%20file%20for%20public%20indexing%20of%20access-restricted%20file.
[private]:  https://github.com/hyphacoop/organizing-private/new/master?filename=meeting-notes/2020-MM-DD-all-hands.md
