# Hypha Objectives for 2020 Q3

_See the objectives alongside our key results in our [**OKR tracking sheet**](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hMFS3IhzZOFQA-yjt7lFcoVO0Ry6erFEH7D1NswvDtA/edit)._

## Business Planning WG

O1. Continue building our engagement strategy    
O2. Refine our market positioning   
O3. Find new and recurring revenue sources    
O4. Assess our financial sustainability (as “capacity to endure”) (cross-cut with Finance WG)  
O5. Shorten our lead-to-proposal time (i.e. identifying an opportunity > getting member buy-in > submitting a proposal)  
O6. Develop our leads and opportunities pipeline   

## Finance WG

O1. Complete our first year Financial setup and responsibilities
O2. Reduce the amount of recurring Finance workload to members
O3. Develop Finance processes to better support the livelihood of members and neighbours

## Governance WG 

O1. Ensure our governance structure sets us up for Y2 and beyond
O2. Develop early strategy for embodying our values in practice (cross-cut with Operations, Finance WG - Goal 8)
O3. Create initial good member statement from AGM conversations (cross-cut with Operationss, Infra WG - Goal 7)

## Infrastructure WG

O1. Engage in marketing activities and development of public communication materials
O2. Develop the automation resources and associated costs to acquire and maintain virtual office for client
O3. Improve our deployment infrastructure

## Operations WG

O1. Continue to set-up operations workspace
O2. Cultivate the culture needed to be an effective remote organization (cross-cut with Governance, Infra WG)
O3. Examine which of our workflow and processes support a culture of accountability
O4. Review operational practices where we know our values are enacted
